Literature Survey

Cloud Messaging for Android Is a Push Notification Service 
-B. Dhivya, G.  Lakshmiprabha, P. Nivethitha and K. Kala

Cloud Messaging for Android is a push notification service that allows sending data from server to user's Android mobile devices. Push messaging provides an important aspect of server to device communication. This service provides a simple, lightweight mechanism that servers can use to tell mobile applications to contact the server directly, to fetch updated application or user data. 

The Cloud Messaging service handles all aspects of queuing of messages and delivery to the target application running on the target device. Applications on an Android device do not need to be running to receive messages. This service will wake up the application as long as the application is set up with the proper broadcast receiver and permissions. The application might post a notification, display a custom user interface, or silently sync data. This requires users to set up their Google account on their mobile devices. Thus in near future android mobiles will be in the hands of people in companies, schools, colleges, hospitals, banks, shops. Thus using this app, message from the superior, if posted to the cloud will be sent as push messages to the registered persons.



Survey Paper on “An Android Based Mobile Framework for Student Alert Notification”
-Sagar Gore, Nitesh Sonawane, Sayali Pawar and Mrunal Nerkar


 Android phones are now become handiness to many and much people with the advance of electronics and communication technology. They are getting wide acceptability because of their utilized cordial applications. This paper deals with such an android application made for academic avail of students, and teachers and staffs of the educational institution. Its features are- provide class and laboratory schedule, notice board, teachers update, notification for recently inclusive updates, CGPA (cumulative grade point average) calculation. Its goal is to provide avail in academically works by making communication more facile, provide simple and quick access to information. Though it has been development for a specific institution, this application has the possible tractable to inclusive much assistive function and have extent version for a wide range of users.



 Android Based College Notification System
-Jadhav Komal, Sayyad Sana, Shinde Swapnali, Bhaldar Jasmin and Prof. Mahind R. N.

Our aim to replace the traditional notice board with E-notice board. Now no need to maintain numbers of account for sharing information, exchange of notes and all college related news, now it will be accessible anywhere anytime just on a single click on your android device. Just install “E-Notice Board App” on your android device and you can access all notices of your college. We have developing for staff add notes, experiments dates, submission and for students upload and download tutorials, experiments, question paper and notes in an easy and efficient manner. This project includes major activity entities: add notices, add staff record, and add student record which is handled by Admin. The Admin can add, delete, and update them simultaneously on the online system. These can then be viewed by the students.


Multipurpose Android Based Mobile Notifier
-Saurabh Malgaonkar, Vivek Maurya, Mukul Kulkarni and Gurtej Singh Majithia

This paper discusses about the various techniques and methods used for pushing or notification of messages using various Android connectivity methodologies on Android devices & applications. The concept of Google Cloud Messaging, C2DM & Xtify is explained in brief with their applications, procedure and working. The current application and usage of these technologies is also discussed with their future scope. We have implemented a basic notification application using Google Cloud Messaging where we were able to analyse and document results of the application developed in order to have a brief idea of the technology and study it in terms of future research to be carried out in the same domain.



Android Based Student Learning System
-Vineet Singh

The advancement and proliferations in Information and Communication Technology has led to migration of learning beyond the traditional classroom Face-to- Face (F2F) to different types of learning such as Distance Flexible Learning (DFL), Electronic Learning (eLearning) and to everywhere and anytime known as Mobile Learning (mLearning). The extensive use of mobile technologies has resulted in increasing interest in mobile learning. The proposed system has many learning tools, mainly the timely notification for different modules such as activities due dates, exam alert and discussion notification. Integrated with MOODLE (course management system) to enhance learning, it
also has tutorial tool for students/tutors to reduce paper work and unnecessary workload on the tutors.  This proposed system’s tools provide more flexibility, mobility and convenient than eLearning mode which rises routine attention to self-learning modules which might boost learner’s skills in learning.


A Proposed System for Push Messaging on Android
-Rasha el Stohy, Nashaat el Khamesy and Haitham el Ghareeb

Rapid proliferation of mobile computing technology has massive potential for enhancing the interactions between different partners in educational institutions, particularly in schools. However, how communicating with parents via applications anytime anywhere is quite a challenging demand. On the other hand, the addressed success of the supporting Android features provides a good candidate to aid applications with real time information. Moreover, the Android platforms supports efficiently customizable notifications, which allow applications based on Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) to specify the pushed events. In this paper, we look at different push messaging alternatives available for Android. Push messaging provides an important aspect of server to device communication, and we specifically focus on the integration of cloud computing with mobile devices through the use of push-based technologies.
The paper presents a proposed notification system; ToParent, that actively provide alerts and messaging between parents and schools. Also, we investigate the performance of the two relevant push technologies for the Android devices,
push notification service (PNS) and the short messaging service (SMS). The proposed system was implemented using Eclipse. The system has been tested and validated. Evaluation have proven that the proposed ToParent enabled better efficiency, which satisfy both parties; parents and school administrations.



A Mobile Application for Bus Notification System
-Sourinda Chatterji, Srivatsa M S, Pareekshith K J, Amith Kashyap


The paper is essentially at the core a bus notification system based in the city of Bangalore. It focuses on the public transport and aims to notify the users about departure times of buses according to the input given by end users. The users can also receive notifications at each stop. The application is highly customizable with options to change the bus routes, the number of stops and the frequency of notifications. The technology being implemented is called Variable Message Display or VMD. The core of implementation is GSM. The testing phase of the application was done on few buses expanding slowly to the entire region.  
 
The app requires a sign in which has a username and a phone number being stored at a database server off site. Location permissions also play a huge role in the application. We can see that the project will massively help newcomers of a town as they will not know how many stops a bus has until their destination. Google maps does not provide the depth of integration this app provides in that particular section. The client does not need to use GPS everywhere thus helping out with the battery drain as well. At server end, they use the VMD to get the information from the bus. This eliminates the need of installing GPS caches on each bus which would be absurd when taking the costs into account. 

Now to the question that matters – How does this paper help Pingr? The major talking point is the integration of VMD. This is a very clever implementation to cut down costs thus making the application more productive and cost effective. Knowledge of VMD will be helpful for Pingr. Also, the handling of multiple notifications is excellent as we require a similar implementation of the GSM for Pingr. 







Short Message Service: Offline Notification System through SMS for Android Application
-Harshad Kale, Ganesh Rane, Sagar Shende, Swapnil Shinde

The project being undertaken here is an offline notification system that combines GCM and SMS – one that has not been seen before. Bulk SMS is the dissemination of large numbers of SMS for delivery to any mobile phone terminals. Used by schools, media companies, banks widely, it is a reliable method. The movement to electronic media is also disadvantageous - a critical failure in the underlying system will cause a massive collapse of the entire structure. To counter this, an offline system is being favoured by most large organizations.   
 
The use of GCM to give push notifications is an excellent and clever addition. The structure is divided into three parts – One system receiving data, a third party service providing instructions and a service such as GCS or Apple Push Notification Service.   

This helps our project massively. The underlying requirement is that one must be very familiar with two aspects of Android for undertaking such a project – 
•	The notification service. Specifically – Google Cloud Service. The tools we use have APIs ready to configure notification channels – yet one must familiarize himself with it if he is to have a successful implementation. Also, the user must learn the working of GCS if he is to debug the issues that users will face with time.  
•	The server client service – Firebase or Amazon or Google Cloud Messaging. This is an excellent service provided by google to be utilized by anyone willing to have a server based notification system like us. The service has various APIs, excellent documentation and a vast array of options to configure. 




Personal Emergency Notification Application for Mobile Devices
-Akansha Raj, Asmita Pawar, Ganesh M. Gaikwad  


The involvement of mobile phones and the amazing growth it had into everyone’s lives is astounding. Naturally, we rely on phones for nearly everything. And one of those aspects which is taken for granted is living quality. This paper deals with emergency notification application which uses GPS and an interface for sending messages. It is a widely sought after idea with a relatively simple implementation. At the heart of this idea is a location awareness system that keeps track of the user’s current location. Later on, when the situation arises, it can share the location with family and friends when an emergency arises. To get the location coordinates, the application uses GPS. A GPS receiver is vital for the implementation. 
 
The target group for this app is mainly women, of all ages. To them, self defence against dangers lurking at the wrong places is vital for a healthy living eco system. The app uses a server, a database, a mobile client and a GPS Service. The server accepts requests from the mobile client and reacts accordingly. They operate within a client server architecture and are programs running to serve others requests.
