Literature Survey

Cloud Messaging For Android Is A Push Notification Service 
-B. Dhivya, G.  Lakshmiprabha,  P. Nivethitha and K. Kala

Cloud Messaging for Android is a push notification service that allows sending data from server to user's Android mobile devices. Push messaging provides an important aspect of server to device communication. This service provides a simple, lightweight mechanism that servers can use to tell mobile applications to contact the server directly, to fetch updated application or user data. The Cloud Messaging service handles all aspects of queuing of messages and delivery to the target application running on the target device. Applications on an Android device do not need to be running to receive messages. This service will wake up the application as long as the application is set up with the proper broadcast receiver and
permissions. The application might post a notification, display a custom user interface, or silently sync data. This requires users to set up their Google account on their mobile devices. Thus in near future android mobiles will be in the hands of people in
companies, schools, colleges, hospitals, banks, shops. Thus using this app, message from the superior, if posted to the cloud will be sent as push messages to the registered persons.



 Survey Paper on “An Android Based Mobile Framework for Student Alert Notification”
-Sagar Gore, Nitesh Sonawane, Sayali Pawar and Mrunal Nerkar


 Android phones are now become handiness to many and much people with the advance of electronics and communication technology. They are getting wide acceptability because of their utilized cordial applications. This paper deals with such an android application made for academic avail of students, and teachers and staffs of the educational institution. Its features are- provide class and laboratory schedule, notice board, teachers update, notification for recently inclusive updates, CGPA (cumulative grade point average) calculation. Its goal is to provide avail in academically works by making communication more facile, provide simple and quick access to information. Though it has been development for a specific institution, this application has the possible tractable to inclusive much assistive function and have extent version for a wide range of users.



 Android Based College Notification System
-Jadhav Komal, Sayyad Sana, Shinde Swapnali, Bhaldar Jasmin and Prof. Mahind R. N.

Our aim to replace the traditional notice board with E-notice board. Now no need to maintain numbers of account for sharing information, exchange of notes and all college related news, now it will be accessible anywhere anytime just on a single click on your android device. Just install “E-Notice Board App” on your android device and you can access all notices of your college. We have developing for staff add notes, experiments dates, submission and for students upload and download tutorials, experiments, question paper and notes in an easy and efficient manner. This project includes major activity entities: add notices, add staff record, and add student record which is handled by Admin. The Admin can add, delete, and update them simultaneously on the online system. These can then be viewed by the students.


Multipurpose Android Based Mobile Notifier
-Saurabh Malgaonkar, Vivek Maurya, Mukul Kulkarni and Gurtej Singh Majithia

This paper discusses about the various techniques and methods used for pushing or notification of messages using various Android connectivity methodologies on Android devices & applications. The concept of Google Cloud Messaging, C2DM & Xtify is explained in brief with their applications, procedure and working. The current application and usage of these technologies is also discussed with their future scope. We have implemented a basic notification application using Google Cloud Messaging where we were able to analyze and document results of the application developed in order to have a brief idea of the technology and study it in terms of future research to be carried out in the same domain.



Android Based Student Learning System
-Vineet Singh

The advancement and proliferations in Information and Communication Technology has led to migration of learning beyond the traditional classroom Face-to- Face (F2F) to different types of learning such as Distance Flexible Learning (DFL), Electronic Learning (eLearning) and to everywhere and anytime known as Mobile Learning (mLearning). The extensive use of mobile technologies has resulted in increasing interest in mobile learning. The proposed system has many learning tools, mainly the timely notification for different modules such as activities due dates, exam alert and discussion notification. Integrated with MOODLE (course management system) to enhance learning, it
also has tutorial tool for students/tutors to reduce paper work and unnecessary workload on the tutors.  This proposed system’s tools provides more flexibility, mobility and convenient than eLearning mode which rises routine attention to self-learning modules which might boost learner’s skills in learning.


A Proposed System for Push Messaging on Android
-Rasha el Stohy, Nashaat el Khamesy and Haitham el Ghareeb

Rapid proliferation of mobile computing technology has massive potential for enhancing the interactions between different partners in educational institutions, particularly in schools. However, how communicating with parents via applications anytime anywhere is quite a challenging demand. On the other hand, the addressed success of the supporting Android features provides a good candidate to aid applications with real time information. Moreover the Android platforms supports efficiently customizable notifications, which allow applications based on Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) to specify the pushed events. In this paper, we look at different push messaging alternatives available for Android. Push messaging provides an important aspect of server to device communication, and we specifically focus on the integration of cloud computing with mobile devices through the use of push-based technologies.
The paper presents a proposed notification system; ToParent, that actively provide alerts and messaging between parents and schools. Also, we investigate the performance of the two relevant push technologies for the Android devices,
push notification service (PNS) and the short messaging service (SMS). The proposed system was implemented using Eclipse. The system has been tested and validated. Evaluation have proven that the proposed ToParent enabled better efficiency, which satisfy both parties; parents and school administrations.







